# Configure ArgoCD


## Previous Requirements

For this example we will use the namespaces ```dev``` and ```qa```. You can create using the command:  
```kubectl create namespace qa```  
Or applying the file in the .argocd-configuration folder:  
```kubectl apply -f .\namespaces.yaml```

## Create Resources type Projects

Provides a logical grouping of applications, including access to source and destination repositories, and permissions to resources within the cluster.

In the folder .argocd-configuration there are the manifest to create the Projects. If you do not want to use a Project in the argoCD ApplicationSet manifest in the project value you can put "default"

```kubectl apply -f .\app-project-calculator-dev.yaml```

## Create Resources type ApplicationSet

The ApplicationSet controller is a Kubernetes controller that adds support for an ApplicationSet CustomResourceDefinition (CRD). This controller/CRD enables both automation and greater flexibility when managing Argo CD Applications. 

It allows to create Aplications Resources automatically.

```kubectl apply -f .\applicationset-develop.yaml```

Detailed information in [ApplicationSet](https://argocd-applicationset.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
  


## Configure Github Access

To access privates repositories it is necessary to define the access.
In this example we are using ssh keys. 

In this tutorial it is explained how to create the ssh key and create the configuration in 
github
https://levelup.gitconnected.com/connect-argocd-to-your-private-github-repository-493b1483c01e

After having the ssh key it is necessary create a secret resource in kubernetes that with the url and private key that argocd will use to connect to the repository. This archive is include in the helm templates because we need one by project

Example
``` yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  labels:
    argocd.argoproj.io/secret-type: repository
  name: sum-svc-gokit-github-repository-secret
  namespace: argocd
type: Opaque
data:
  sshPrivateKey: "HERE THE PRIVATE KEY ENCODED IN BASE 64"
stringData:  
  type: git
  url:  git@github.com:gclamigueiro/sum-svc-gokit
```

In this tutorial it is explained with more details

https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/how-to-use-argocd-deployments-with-github-tokens
