# Service Discovery

A microservices-based application typically runs in virtualized or containerized environments. The number of instances of a service and its locations changes dynamically. We need to know where these instances are and their names to allow requests to arrive at the target microservice.
The key component of service discovery is a service registry, which is a database of the network locations of an application’s service instances.

## The Application-level service discovery patterns

One way to implement service discovery is for the application’s services and their clients to interact with the service registry.
This approach to service discovery is a combination of two patterns.

### Self registration Pattern
A service instance registers itself with the service registry.  
[Self registration pattern](http://microservices.io/patterns/self-registration.html).

### Client-side discovery Pattern
A service client retrieves the list of available service instances from the service registry
and load balances across them.  
[Client-side discovery pattern](http://microservices.io/patterns/clientside-discovery.html).

### Benefits

- It handles the scenario
when services are deployed on multiple deployment platforms

### Drawback

- You need a service discovery
library for every language—and possibly framework—that you use
- You’re responsible for setting up and managing the service registry, which is a distraction

## Platform-provided service discovery patterns

Many modern deployment platforms such as Docker and Kubernetes have a built-in service registry and service discovery mechanism. The deployment platform gives each service a DNS name, a virtual IP (VIP)
address, and a DNS name that resolves to the VIP address. A service client makes a request to the DNS name/VIP, and the deployment platform automatically routes the request to one of the available service instances. As a result, service registration, service
discovery, and request routing are entirely handled by the deployment platform.

This approach is a combination of two patterns:

### 3rd party registration pattern
Service instances are automatically registered with the service registry by a third party.
[Client-side discovery pattern](http://microservices.io/patterns/3rd-party-registration.html).

### 3rd party registration pattern
A client makes a request to a router, which is responsible for service discovery.
[Server-side discovery pattern](http://microservices.io/patterns/server-side-discovery.html).

### Benefits

- The key is that all aspects of service discovery
are entirely handled by the deployment platform. Neither the services nor the clients contain any service discovery code.

### Drawback

- It only supports the
discovery of services that have been deployed using the platform